# missing_data_technique_analysis

##Data are quantitative and qualitative information collected or created to learn more about a particular program, topic, or subject. They are collected and used in a variety of different fields and applications using statistical methods to discover the answer to research questions. From being used to determine the effectiveness of a public program that will impact the living conditions of millions of people to being used by a single person wanting to study their health data on the Fitbit fitness tracker and pedometer to increase their activity. Although data are extremely powerful to both the individual and larger organizations, there is a major issue that affects nearly everyone who works with data. It is rare to have a dataset that is complete with no missing data. This problem grows when a dataset is larger than a few rows or columns as well.  Missing data can mislead researchers who attempt to conduct statistical analysis and skew the results in such a way that causes, bias, efficiency loss, and incorrect standard errors. It could cause the data to mislead the researchers in such a way that causes more harm than good.  In this paper I will discuss my study using multiple methods to resolve missing data on motor vehicle collision crashes in New York City. I am using data from the NYC Open Data website, an initiative from the former New York Mayor Bloomberg to allow access to multiple datasets in a variety of local government agencies for the general publics use.  The motor vehicle collision data contains information from the police report, “MV104-AN”, filed when a collision causes more than $1000 worth of damage or when someone is injured or killed in New York City. The data goes back to April of 2014 but for the purpose of this study I filtered the data from January 1st, 2021, through February 1st, 2022. The dataset contains many twenty-nine different variables;  “crash date”, “crash time”, “borough”, “zip code”, “latitude”, “longitude”, “location”, “on street name”, “cross street name”, “off street name”, “number of persons injured”, “number of persons killed”, “number of pedestrians injured”, “number of pedestrians killed”, “number of cyclist injured”, “number of cyclist killed”, “number of motorist injured”, “number of motorist killed”, “contributing factor vehicle 1”, “contributing factor vehicle 2”, contributing factor vehicle 3”, “contributing factor vehicle 4”, “contributing factor vehicle 5”, “collision_id”, “vehicle type code 1”, “vehicle type code 2”, “vehicle type code 3”, “vehicle type code 4”,  and “vehicle type code 5”. A variety of both observed, quantitative, qualitative and date variable types. For my study, I omitted the contributing factor vehicle, vehicle type code, and street name variables. In total the final shortened dataset included 116,644 rows, each one representing a vehicle collision and 16 total variable columns. 1.12% of the data overall was found to be missing. The only columns that had missing data was; “borough”, with 3.5% missing, “latitude”, with 7.9% missing, “zip code”, with 3.47% missing, “longitude”, with 7.9% missing, “on street name”, with 2. 69% missing, and, “number of persons injured”, with 8.57% missing.
 To test the way different missing data methods can affect analysis I will conduct a linear regression analysis studying how the number of persons injured changed based on what borough the collision took place. 
